NFTs are quite hot these days. Not to mention their price.
Floor price of crypto punks are well in the hundreds of thousands meaning that they are not affordable to an average investor anymore. Hence comes the idea of fractional ownership of NFTs implemented by Fractional.
For educational purposes let's build something similar. I would like to create an exchange where users can mint fractions or shares of deposited NFTs and trade them. Cross-chain capabilities are also trending these days so let's build an exchange that works cross-chain.
Putting things a bit more formal I would like to cover the following use cases:
1. NFT owner can deposit his/her NFT and mint a desired amount of fractions. While the NFT is fractionalized on the exchange it can not be sold on any other exchange.
2. After minting fractions the owner can start trading them and other users can acquire ownership by buying those fractions.
3. The exchange has to support the regular order types on exchanges: limit and market orders.
4. Anyone should be able to see all information about NFTs: 
- original NFT with its data 
- number of fractions minted
- current owners and their shares
- open trades
- trade history
5. Users who wish to trade can deposit cryptocurrencies to trade with and later withdraw them.
6. The user who acquired ownership of all shares can withdraw the NFT from the exchange and use it as a regular NFT, e.g: sell it on any secondary market.
7. Trading fractions should be affordable to anyone so the exchange has to operate on some layer2 solution. Even better it should be cross-chain supporting two affordable chains. It means users have the possibility to transfer their shares across chains. Since polygon is quite popular it will be the main chain where users can deposit their NFTs from. And BSC will be the other chain.
As mentioned above this project is purely educational for developers. I would like to cover different concepts and technologies along the way. This assumes base knowledge of blockchain technology and Solidity. Getting more technical we use the following tech stack: Solidity, OpenZeppelin, Truffle, React, Material-UI, web3.js, node.js, GraphQL
You can try the application hosted from Fleek's CDN:
https://round-hill-1400.on.fleek.co/#/
Or hosted from IPFS:
https://nft-fractions-dex.eth.limo/#/
The code is available here and the subgraph-related repository is here.
This series will cover the following topics:
Smart contract architecture
NFT Fractions repository contracts
Decentralized exchange contracts
Bridge contracts
The Graph
UI, deployment, hosting, decentralization

If you would like to see my other projects and contributions:
https://www.szabolcsszentes.com/